Contributing.md (#587)
rust-bitcoin/rust-bitcoin: CONTRIBUTING.md

  * [Repository maintainers](#repository-maintainers)
- [Coding conventions](#coding-conventions)
  * [Formatting](#formatting)
  * [MSRV](#msrv)
  * [Naming conventions](#naming-conventions)
  * [Unsafe code](#unsafe-code)
- [Security](#security)
- [Testing](#testing)
- [Going further](#going-further)

## General

The Rust Bitcoin project operates an open contributor model where anyone is
welcome to contribute towards development in the form of peer review,
documentation, testing and patches.

Anyone is invited to contribute without regard to technical experience,
"expertise", OSS experience, age, or other concern. However, the development of
standards & reference implementations demands a high-level of rigor, adversarial
thinking, thorough testing and risk-minimization. Any bug may cost users real
money. That being said, we deeply welcome people contributing for the first time
to an open source project or pick up Rust while contributing. Don't be shy,
you'll learn.

## Communication channels

Communication about Rust Bitcoin happens primarily in
[#bitcoin-rust](https://web.libera.chat/?channel=#bitcoin-rust) IRC chat on
[Libera](https://libera.chat/) with the logs available at

> <http://gnusha.org/rust-bitcoin/>.

Reviewer: It looks the logs at http://gnusha.org/rust-bitcoin/ didn't switch to libera because they are not working since about June 2021

Author: Yes. We have to contact Bryan Bishop to do that.

Reviewer 2: Sure, I'll ping him.

Reviewer 2: Actually I just checked and it looks liek https://gnusha.org/bitcoin-rust/ is up to date.

So actually, we should change our CONTRIBUTING file and our IRC /topic.

Author: May I do that with a fixup commit not to make re-review the whole PR for others?

Reviewer 3: I vote for fixup, reviewing this is a huge pain already.

Reviewer 2: Yep for sure.

Reviewer: > Actually I just checked and it looks liek https://gnusha.org/bitcoin-rust/ is up to date.

Is it correct that days are there, but they are empty (except from log-start/log-end) up to June 2021?

Reviewer 2: There is very little activity on the channel, but the logs do not appear empty to me.

Reviewer: Ah sorry I was watching http://gnusha.org/rust-bitcoin/ while you linked http://gnusha.org/bitcoin-rust/ (rust and bitcoin switched)

Author: Done

- [Steven Roose](https://github.com/stevenroose)
- [Maxim Orlovsky](https://github.com/dr-orlovsky)
- [Matt Corallo](https://github.com/TheBlueMatt)
- [Elichai Turkel](https://github.com/elichai)
- [Sebastian Geisler](https://github.com/sgeisler)
- [Sanket Kanjalkar](https://github.com/sanket1729)

Anyone may become a prepository maintaner by:
- Demonstrating long-term commitment to the project development (multiple 
  accepted PRs and code review of other's PRs over prolonged period of time, 
  proven by the rank in 
  [GitHub project contributors list](https://github.com/rust-bitcoin/rust-bitcoin/graphs/contributors))
- Contributing code and reviews at high quality, passing peer-review of the
  existing maintainers and other participants.
- Willing to perform peer review and participate in closing issues on the 
  regular basis in the future.

On the other hand, those, who had stopped participating in the project 
development on the ongoing basis may be, after some "grace period", be removed
from the project maintainers, if there are other candidates who can replace them
(such that "2 positive reviews from maintainers" requirement will remain 
achievable).

> ## Coding conventions

Reviewer 3: Perhaps mention that Rust-idiomatic style is preferred to "how it looks in Core" if everyone agrees.

Author: Done below

be reviewed.

The current plan is to phase it in over multiple commits or even multiple PRs,
which will introduce no other changes that re-formatting, such that each change 
may be independently re-reproduced by each reviewer. The first commit should add
attributes to disable fmt for some parts of the code and a second one does the 
formatting – so only the first one needs review, the rest will be reproducible.

You may check the [discussion on the formatting](https://github.com/rust-bitcoin/rust-bitcoin/issues/172)
and [how it is planned to coordinate it with crate refactoring](https://github.com/rust-bitcoin/rust-bitcoin/pull/525)

<!--
Rust-fmt should be used as a coding style recommendations in general, with a
default coding style. By default, Rustfmt uses a style which conforms to the
[Rust style guide][style guide] that has been formalized through the [style RFC
process][fmt rfcs]. It is also required to run `cargo fmt` to make the code
formatted according to `rustfmt` parameters 
-->

### Derivation

Derivations applied to a data structures should be standardized:

1. All non-error types should opportunistically derive, where it is possible,
   the following traits:

>    - `Copy`

Reviewer 4: Maybe also mention this is only reasonable for "small" structs (in addition to the no-heap requirement).

Reviewer 3: I'm not really sure if it helps in practice. Moves are `memcpy` anyway.

   - `Clone`
   - `PartialEq` and `Eq`
   - `PartialOrd` and `Ord`
   - `Hash`
   - `Debug`
   
   By "where possible" we mean that by default a code line
   ```rust
   #[derive(Copy, Clone, PartialEq, Eq, PartialOrd, Ord, Hash, Debug)]
   ```
   must be placed before each struct, and then those of these traits, which can't

>    be auto-derived because of the member field restrictions should be removed.

Reviewer 3: This should also forbid traits that conflict with invariants or guarantees of the type. Examples:

* structs with `Drop` (well, this is caught by the compiler but it's not **member field** restriction)
* Types that don't have reflexive equality/ordering (no `Eq`, `Ord`)

Possibly also forbid impls with foot-gunny or non-obvious implementations.

Also forbid **deriving** `Debug` on secrets - implement it manually by censoring the secret.

Author: Added two points below addressing this issues: https://github.com/rust-bitcoin/rust-bitcoin/pull/587/files#diff-eca12c0a30e25b4b46522ebf89465a03ba72a03f540796c979137931d8f92055R206-R215

   the end user (not developers!), for instance in command line or as a part of
   GUI. Here are some guidelines: 
   - Normally, `Display` implementation should not just repeat `Debug` and
     structure the data in some visually-acceptable way. 
   - One should pay attention to the ability of providing alternative ways of 
     data formatting with `{:#}` formatting string option, detectable by 
     `std::fmt::Formatter::alternate()` function. Other important options to
     look at are `align`, `fill`, `pad`, `precision` and `width`. 
   - When displaying the member fields it is important to consider the ability
     to pass them display formatting options; thus, 
     `Display::fmt(&self.field, f)?;` is preferable over 
     `write!(f, "{}", self.field)?;`

5. Serde serializers should be implemented for all data types which may persist
   or may be presented in the UI or API as JSON/YAML and other kinds of data 
   representations (in fact, these are all data types).

The discussion about trait derivation can be read at 
[the tracking issue](https://github.com/rust-bitcoin/rust-bitcoin/issues/555).

### MSRV

> The Minimal Supported Rust Version (MSRV) is 0.29; it is enforced by our CI. 

Reviewer 4: 1.29 :)

Author: Yeah, it feels like it is 0.29 :D

Later we plan to increase MSRV to support Rust 2018 and you are welcome to check
the [tracking issue](https://github.com/rust-bitcoin/rust-bitcoin/issues/510).

### Naming conventions

Naming of data structures/enums and their fields/variants must follow names used
in Bitcoin Core, with except to:
- case, which should follow Rust standards (i.e. PascalCase for types and 
  snake_case for fields and variants)
- `C`-prefix, which should be omitted

## Security

> Security is the primary focus of Rust-LNPBP; disclosure of security

Reviewer 4: Bitcoin :) and also below.

vulnerabilities helps prevent user loss of funds. If you believe a vulnerability
may affect other  implementations, please inform them.

Note that Rust-LNPBP is currently considered "pre-production" during this time,
there is no special handling of security issues. Please simply open an issue on

> Github.

Reviewer 3: Is it? At least `electrs` depends on it and I consider it in-production.

Reviewer 4: This appears to have been copied from LNPBP and isn't right.

## Testing

Related to the security aspect, rust bitcoin developers must be taking testing
very seriously. Due to the modular nature of the project, writing new functional
tests is easy and good test coverage of the codebase is an important goal.
Refactoring the project to enable fine-grained unit testing is also an ongoing
effort.

Fuzzing is heavily encouraged: feel free to add related material under `fuzz/`

Mutation testing is planned; any contribution there would be warmly welcomed.

> 

Reviewer 3: Maybe add a requirement to test `unsafe` code with sanitizers including Miri?

Author: Do we allow `unsafe` at all here?

Author: Added a dedicated section addressing `unsafe`: https://github.com/rust-bitcoin/rust-bitcoin/pull/587/files#diff-eca12c0a30e25b4b46522ebf89465a03ba72a03f540796c979137931d8f92055R262-R266

to make sure that no unintended changes are introduced with the change of 
formatting. Thus, all PRs introducing large blocks of re-formatted code will not
be reviewed.

The current plan is to phase it in over multiple commits or even multiple PRs,
which will introduce no other changes that re-formatting, such that each change 
may be independently re-reproduced by each reviewer. The first commit should add
attributes to disable fmt for some parts of the code and a second one does the 
formatting – so only the first one needs review, the rest will be reproducible.

You may check the [discussion on the formatting](https://github.com/rust-bitcoin/rust-bitcoin/issues/172)
and [how it is planned to coordinate it with crate refactoring](https://github.com/rust-bitcoin/rust-bitcoin/pull/525)

<!--
Rust-fmt should be used as a coding style recommendations in general, with a
default coding style. By default, Rustfmt uses a style which conforms to the
[Rust style guide][style guide] that has been formalized through the [style RFC
process][fmt rfcs]. It is also required to run `cargo fmt` to make the code
formatted according to `rustfmt` parameters 

> -->

Author: Since it will be valid once we will reformat the crate with `rustfmt`, so after that this part can be just uncomented and not written from scratch

### Derivation

Derivations applied to a data structures should be standardized:

1. All non-error types should opportunistically derive, where it is possible,
   the following traits:
   - `Copy`
   - `Clone`
   - `PartialEq` and `Eq`
   - `PartialOrd` and `Ord`
   - `Hash`
   - `Debug`
   
   By "where possible" we mean that by default a code line
   ```rust
   #[derive(Copy, Clone, PartialEq, Eq, PartialOrd, Ord, Hash, Debug)]
   ```
   must be placed before each struct, and then those of these traits, which can't
   be auto-derived because of the member field restrictions should be removed.

2. `Eq`, `PartialEq`, `Ord`, `PartialOrd` derivation must be skipped/removed
   from pt. 1 in the following situations:
   - for types that don't have reflexive equality/ordering
   - types which has lexicographic ordering defined as a part of a standard must

>      provide manual derivation

Reviewer 3: You mean manual *implementation*?

   - types which may be more efficiently compared with bitcoin-specific rules
     should provide manual derivation

3. `Debug` must not be derived on structs and enums which may contain secret

>    data, and a manual `Debug` implementation should be provided instead.

Reviewer 3: I think "... implementation excluding private data should be ..." would be clearer

   representations (in fact, these are all data types).

The discussion about trait derivation can be read at 
[the tracking issue](https://github.com/rust-bitcoin/rust-bitcoin/issues/555).

### MSRV

The Minimal Supported Rust Version (MSRV) is 1.29; it is enforced by our CI. 
Later we plan to increase MSRV to support Rust 2018 and you are welcome to check
the [tracking issue](https://github.com/rust-bitcoin/rust-bitcoin/issues/510).

### Naming conventions

Naming of data structures/enums and their fields/variants must follow names used
in Bitcoin Core, with except to:
- case, which should follow Rust standards (i.e. PascalCase for types and 
  snake_case for fields and variants)
- `C`-prefix, which should be omitted

### Unsafe code

Use of `unsafe` code is prohibited unless there is a unanonymous decision among
library maintainers on the exclusion from this rule. In such cases there is a 
requirement to test unsafe code with sanitizers including Miri.

## Security

Security is the primary focus for this library; disclosure of security
vulnerabilities helps prevent user loss of funds. If you believe a vulnerability
may affect other  implementations, please inform them.

> 

Reviewer 3: I think vulnerabilities in the library should be disclosed to the library authors as well. Contact information (with PGP key and cross-references to keybase/whatever) should be provided.

Reviewer 5: Good question, currently we don't have a process for that I think. It seems like something that warrants some discussion. Are you proposing putting a list of email addresses+GPG keys into this document?

Reviewer 3: I believe the standard is to put it into `SECURITY.md`, but at least linking it here would be useful.

ensure git bisect and other automated tools function properly.

When adding a new feature thought must be given to the long term technical debt.
Every new features should be covered by unit tests.

When refactoring, structure your PR to make it easy to review and don't hesitate
to split it into multiple small, focused PRs.

Commits should cover both the issue fixed and the solution's rationale.
These [guidelines](https://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/) should be kept in
mind.

To facilitate communication with other contributors, the project is making use
of GitHub's "assignee" field. First check that no one is assigned and then
comment suggesting that you're working on it. If someone is already assigned,
don't hesitate to ask if the assigned party or previous commenters are still
working on it if it has been awhile.

## Branches information

The main library development happens in the `master` branch. This branch must
always compile without errors (using GitHub CI). All external contributions are
made within PRs into this branch.

Each commitment within a PR to the `master` must
* compile without errors;
* contain all necessary tests for the introduced functional;

> * contain all docs.

Reviewer 2: To be clear, each commit must compile and pass unit tests with no errors, with every feature combination (excepting `fuzztarget`, but including compiling the fuzztests) on some reasonably recent compiler. The tip of any PR branch must also compile and pass tests with no errors on 1.29.

I don't feel very strongly about insisting that commits include their own tests. I would mildly prefer that tests be in separate commits so that it's easy to reorder them during review and check that the new tests fail without the new code.

## Peer review

Anyone may participate in peer review which is expressed by comments in the pull
request. Typically reviewers will review the code for obvious errors, as well as
test out the patch set and opine on the technical merits of the patch. PR should
be reviewed first on the conceptual level before focusing on code style or
grammar fixes.

### Repository maintainers

For the pull request to be merged we require (a) that all CI test should pass 
and (2) at least two "accepts"/ACKs from the repository maintainers – and no 
main reasonable "rejects"/NACKs from anybody who reviewed the code.

Current list of the project maintainers:

- [Andrew Poelstra](https://github.com/apoelstra)
- [Steven Roose](https://github.com/stevenroose)
- [Maxim Orlovsky](https://github.com/dr-orlovsky)
- [Matt Corallo](https://github.com/TheBlueMatt)
- [Elichai Turkel](https://github.com/elichai)
- [Sebastian Geisler](https://github.com/sgeisler)
- [Sanket Kanjalkar](https://github.com/sanket1729)

> Anyone may become a prepository maintaner by:

Reviewer 2: Spelling, and also I'd rather drop this whole section. To become a maintainer I need to approve you and I have no explicit policy.

the `master` branch:
* each commit within a PR must compile and pass unit tests with no errors, with
  every feature combination (including compiling the fuzztests) on some
  reasonably recent compiler (this is partially automated with CI, so the rule
  is that if GitHub CI is not passing, the commit can't be accepted);
* the tip of any PR branch must also compile and pass tests with no errors on
  MSRV (check [README.md] on current MSRV requirements) and pass fuzz tests on
  nightly rust;
* contain all necessary tests for the introduced functional (either as a part of
  commits, or, more preferably, as separate commits, so that it's easy to
  reorder them during review and check that the new tests fail without the new
  code);
* contain all inline docs for newly introduced API and pass doc tests;
* be based on the recent `master` tip from the original repository at
  <https://github.com/rust-bitcoin/rust-bitcoin>.

NB: reviewers may run more complex test/CI scripts, thus, satisfying all the
requirements above is just a preliminary, but not necessary sufficient step for
getting the PR accepted as a valid candidate PR for the `master` branch.

> PR authors may also find useful to run the following script locally in order to
> check that each of the commits within the PR satisfy the requirements above,
> before submitting the PR to review:

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
PR authors may also find it useful to run the following script locally in order
to check that each of the commits within the PR satisfies the requirements
above, before submitting the PR to review:
```

from [README.md].

NB: Please keep in mind that the script above replaces `Cargo.lock` file, which
is necessary to support current MSRV, incompatible with `stable` and newer cargo
versions.

### Peer review

Anyone may participate in peer review which is expressed by comments in the pull
request. Typically reviewers will review the code for obvious errors, as well as
test out the patch set and opine on the technical merits of the patch. PR should
be reviewed first on the conceptual level before focusing on code style or
grammar fixes.

### Repository maintainers

For the pull request to be merged we require (a) that all CI test should pass
and (2) at least two "accepts"/ACKs from the repository maintainers – and no
main reasonable "rejects"/NACKs from anybody who reviewed the code.

Current list of the project maintainers:

- [Andrew Poelstra](https://github.com/apoelstra)
- [Steven Roose](https://github.com/stevenroose)
- [Maxim Orlovsky](https://github.com/dr-orlovsky)
- [Matt Corallo](https://github.com/TheBlueMatt)
- [Elichai Turkel](https://github.com/elichai)
- [Sebastian Geisler](https://github.com/sgeisler)
- [Sanket Kanjalkar](https://github.com/sanket1729)

> 
> 

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion

```

## Coding conventions

Overall, this library must reflect Bitcoin Core approach whenever possible.
However, since many of the things in Bitcoin Core are maintained due to
historical reasons and may represent poor design, Rust-idiomatic style is
preferred to "how it looks in Core" if everyone agrees.

### Formatting

We plan to utilize `rustfmt` for keeping the code formatting consistent.
However, this will be a gradual process since a thorough peer review is required
to make sure that no unintended changes are introduced with the change of
formatting. Thus, all PRs introducing large blocks of re-formatted code will not
be reviewed.

The current plan is to phase it in over multiple commits or even multiple PRs,

> which will introduce no other changes that re-formatting, such that each change

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
which will introduce no changes other than re-formatting, such that each change
```

<!--
Rust-fmt should be used as a coding style recommendations in general, with a
default coding style. By default, Rustfmt uses a style which conforms to the
[Rust style guide][style guide] that has been formalized through the [style RFC
process][fmt rfcs]. It is also required to run `cargo fmt` to make the code
formatted according to `rustfmt` parameters
-->

### Derivation

Derivations applied to a data structures should be standardized:

1. All non-error types should opportunistically derive, where it is possible,
   the following traits:
   - `Copy`
   - `Clone`
   - `PartialEq` and `Eq`
   - `PartialOrd` and `Ord`
   - `Hash`
   - `Debug`
  
   By "where possible" we mean that by default a code line
   ```rust
   #[derive(Copy, Clone, PartialEq, Eq, PartialOrd, Ord, Hash, Debug)]
   ```
   must be placed before each struct, and then those of these traits, which can't
   be auto-derived because of the member field restrictions should be removed.

2. `Eq`, `PartialEq`, `Ord`, `PartialOrd` derivation must be skipped/removed
   from pt. 1 in the following situations:
   - for types that don't have reflexive equality/ordering

>    - types which has lexicographic ordering defined as a part of a standard must
>      provide manual implementation
>    - types which may be more efficiently compared with bitcoin-specific rules
>      should provide manual implementation

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
   - types which have a lexicographic ordering defined as a part of a standard
     must provide a manual implementation
   - types which may be more efficiently compared with bitcoin-specific rules
     should provide a manual implementation
```

3. `Debug` must not be derived on structs and enums which may contain secret
   data, and a manual `Debug` implementation should be provided instead.

4. `Default` derivation should be performed whenever there is a rationale to
   have default constructor initializing "empty" data structure, i.e. this
   empty structure has a real use in the business logic *outside of the scope
   of testing or creating dumb data*. For instance, if the structure consists

>    only of collection types which may be empty it should derive `Default` trait.

Reviewer 3: Randomly noticed I forgot about not implementing `Copy` on iterators.

Author: Fixed

### MSRV

The Minimal Supported Rust Version (MSRV) is 1.29; it is enforced by our CI.
Later we plan to increase MSRV to support Rust 2018 and you are welcome to check
the [tracking issue](https://github.com/rust-bitcoin/rust-bitcoin/issues/510).

### Naming conventions

Naming of data structures/enums and their fields/variants must follow names used
in Bitcoin Core, with except to:
- case, which should follow Rust standards (i.e. PascalCase for types and
  snake_case for fields and variants)
- `C`-prefix, which should be omitted

### Unsafe code

Use of `unsafe` code is prohibited unless there is a unanonymous decision among
library maintainers on the exclusion from this rule. In such cases there is a
requirement to test unsafe code with sanitizers including Miri.

## Security

Security is the primary focus for this library; disclosure of security
vulnerabilities helps prevent user loss of funds. If you believe a vulnerability
may affect other implementations, please disclose this information according to
the [security guidelines](./SECURITY.md), work on which is currently in progress.
Before it is completed, feel free to send disclosure to Andrew Poelstra,

> apoelstra@wpsoftware.net, and encrypted with his public key, which may be found

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
apoelstra@wpsoftware.net, encrypted with his public key, which may be found
```

at <https://www.wpsoftware.net/andrew/andrew.gpg>.

## Testing

> Related to the security aspect, rust bitcoin developers must be taking testing
> very seriously. Due to the modular nature of the project, writing new test cases
> is easy and good test coverage of the codebase is an important goal. Refactoring
> the project to enable fine-grained unit testing is also an ongoing effort.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Related to the security aspect, rust bitcoin developers take testing very
seriously. Due to the modular nature of the project, writing new test cases is
easy and good test coverage of the codebase is an important goal. Refactoring
the project to enable fine-grained unit testing is also an ongoing effort.
```

Fuzzing is heavily encouraged: feel free to add related material under `fuzz/`

Mutation testing is planned; any contribution there would be warmly welcomed.

## Going further

> You may be interested by Jon Atack guide on

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
You may be interested in the guide by Jon Atack on
```

"expertise", OSS experience, age, or other concern. However, the development of
standards & reference implementations demands a high-level of rigor, adversarial
thinking, thorough testing and risk-minimization. Any bug may cost users real
money. That being said, we deeply welcome people contributing for the first time
to an open source project or pick up Rust while contributing. Don't be shy,
you'll learn.

## Communication channels

Communication about Rust Bitcoin happens primarily in
[#bitcoin-rust](https://web.libera.chat/?channel=#bitcoin-rust) IRC chat on
[Libera](https://libera.chat/) with the logs available at
<http://gnusha.org/rust-bitcoin/>.

Discussion about code base improvements happens in GitHub issues and on pull
requests.

Major projects are tracked [here](https://github.com/orgs/rust-bitcoin/projects).
Major milestones are tracked [here](https://github.com/rust-bitcoin/rust-bitcoin/milestones).

## Asking questions

> **Note:** Please don't file an issue to ask a question. You'll get faster
> results by using the resources below.

We have a dedicated developer channel on IRC, #rust-bitcoin@freenode.net where

> you may get helpful advice if you have questions.

Reviewer 2: In c7967c87b1856ef933ea556ebf466d68c0fd9487:

Still mentions freenode

## Contribution workflow

The codebase is maintained using the "contributor workflow" where everyone
without exception contributes patch proposals using "pull requests". This
facilitates social contribution, easy testing and peer review.

To contribute a patch, the workflow is a as follows:

1. Fork Repository
2. Create topic branch
3. Commit patches

In general commits should be atomic and diffs should be easy to read. For this
reason do not mix any formatting fixes or code moves with actual code changes.
Further, each commit, individually, should compile and pass tests, in order to
ensure git bisect and other automated tools function properly.

When adding a new feature thought must be given to the long term technical debt.

> Every new features should be covered by unit tests.

Reviewer 2: In 78d1a827697a757ccccf632280787f8a9be5a534:

`features` should be `feature`

2. Create topic branch
3. Commit patches

Please keep commits should atomic and diffs easy to read. For this reason
do not mix any formatting fixes or code moves with actual code changes.
Further, each commit, individually, should compile and pass tests, in order to
ensure git bisect and other automated tools function properly.

Please cover every new features with unit tests.

When refactoring, structure your PR to make it easy to review and don't hesitate
to split it into multiple small, focused PRs.

Commits should cover both the issue fixed and the solution's rationale.
Please keep these [guidelines](https://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/) in mind.

To facilitate communication with other contributors, the project is making use
of GitHub's "assignee" field. First check that no one is assigned and then
comment suggesting that you're working on it. If someone is already assigned,

> don't hesitate to ask if the assigned party or previous commentators are still

Reviewer 2: In d581c9b546fb5b049aea7ba27f24edd1c44f811a:

I think `commenters` was correct.

```shell script
BITCOIN_MSRV=1.29.0 ./contrib/ci.sh
```

> Please replace the value in `BITCOIN_MSRV=1.29.0` with the current MSRV from 

Reviewer 2: In 7ac1fc5f6473838988a55b9fc65d965d3079ff46:

More trailing spaces.

Author: How do you see them?
For me they are usually all get removed by `rustfmt`, but here we do not use that - and my eyes are not as laser as yours to see them clearly :D :D

Reviewer 3: `grep ' $' README.md` should do the trick. :)

Author: It did, but my eyes does not run `grep` as an internal extension. I tried CRISPR for that, but grep is still missed from existing CRISPR repos for human genes :D

Reviewer 2: I use [this tool as my git-diff extension](https://github.com/so-fancy/diff-so-fancy) which highlights trailing whitespace in red.

I am hesitant to recommend it because of the obvious security implications of replacing your diff tool, but it seems to have been working great for me (and has never shown me a diff inconsistent with the normal diff utility, in the times that I've checked).

Reviewer 6: `git diff` shows trailing whitespace. You might need `--color=always` if you pass the output to a pager. FTR I use `vimpager` and have the following shell fuction along with a shell alias for it.
```
git-log-patch () {
    local commit
    if (( $# < 1 ))
    then
        commit="HEAD~"
    else
        commit="$1"
    fi
    git log --color=always --patch --reverse "${commit}".. | vimpager
}
```

Can be used like: `git-log-patch @~~` to get diffs of the last two patches.

Fuzzing is heavily encouraged: feel free to add related material under `fuzz/`

> Mutation testing is planned; any contributions helipng with thet are highly

Reviewer 2: In d581c9b546fb5b049aea7ba27f24edd1c44f811a:

Typo `helipng`
